## Course Policy Regarding the Use of Generative AI

The use of generative AI is growing in software development and we will be utilizing this new technology in this class in a deliberate manner. In terms of in-class exercises and lab assignments, the use of generative AI tools – such as ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini – are prohibited, except when explicitly stated in the assignment. At the same time, there will be particular points in the labs and exercises where you will be instructed to use these tools. We want to help you learn to use this new technology while still ensuring your command of fundamental course concepts.

For labs and in-class exercises, a student who does not wish to use generative AI tools always has the freedom to opt out and simply write the required code on their own without assistance from these tools. Likewise, if a student has concerns over privacy with these tools, it is possible for a student to use a "burner email" to create an account with these generative AI providers. We will never ask students for access to their accounts and/or transcripts of the conversations with generative AI tools, so this email can be kept private and disposed of after the semester ends with no grade impact.

For the course project – particularly Phases 2, 3, and 4 – the use of a generative AI tool is allowed and encouraged, as long as its use is appropriately acknowledged and cited. For instance, if you generated code, in part or in whole, for a model or controller or test file through an AI, you should first edit it for accuracy (see warning below), and then document your work with the following steps:

- for tools like ChatGPT and Bard, you need to provide the filename, the tool used, and the exact prompt used to generate code in the `docs/GenAI_prompts.csv` file. This csv file will be provided in each phase's starter code in the docs directory.

- for Copilot, leave the comment used to prompt Copilot in the code. Any comment with a single `#` will be assumed to be a Copilot prompt, and any non-Copilot comment should be marked with `###` to differentiate it. If Copilot's auto-suggest feature suggested code that you used, simply leave the comment: `# Copilot-suggested code` directly above the code that was suggested and accepted.

While the use of these tools is encouraged on the course project, failure to document their usage as outlined above will be considered violations of CMU’s academic integrity policy. Note that expectations for “plagiarism, cheating, and acceptable assistance” on student work may vary across your courses and instructors and that different courses may have different standards than this class. Please email the faculty and/or a Head TA if you have questions regarding what is permissible and not for a particular assignment in this course or questions about the policy for this particular class.

If you did not use any generative AI tools (including, but not limited to ChatGPT, Copilot, and Gemini) then you can simply include a text file in the `docs` directory stating that you did not use any generative AI tools during the phase in question.  However, if a later examination finds evidence of AI-generated code, you will receive a zero for the assignment and the deception will be reported as an academic integrity violation.

Additionally, please be aware that generative AI tools will sometimes provide code that is primitive and/or in need of refactoring. Since your project is being evaluated for code clarity and style, using an AI to generate the code without reviewing and/or editing that code risks losing points in the project evaluation. _Ultimately, you are responsible for the code that you turn in._
